README.md, before:

# SLACjs

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/wouterbulten/slacjs.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/wouterbulten/slacjs) [![devDependency Status](https://david-dm.org/wouterbulten/slacjs/dev-status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/wouterbulten/slacjs#info=devDependencies) [![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/wouterbulten/slacjs/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/wouterbulten/slacjs) [![bitHound Score](https://www.bithound.io/github/wouterbulten/slacjs/badges/score.svg)](https://www.bithound.io/github/wouterbulten/slacjs)

Simultaneous Localisation and Configuration (SLAC) for Wireless Sensor Networks in indoor environments using FastSLAM.

With SLAC we aim to simultaneously localise both the user and the devices of a system deployed in an indoor environment. The algorithm is privacy-aware and is an online localisation method; i.e. localisation starts whenever a user starts moving inside a building. Moreover, for the SLAC system we focus on a solution that can be deployed in smart spaces without additional hardware requirements besides users’ mobile phones` and the components of the space. By utilising a mobile phone we remove the need for a application-dependent device that the user needs to keep.

SLAC is implemented in Javascript using the ECMAScript 6 standard. See [es6features](https://github.com/lukehoban/es6features) for an overview.

This project is part of a Master Thesis in Artificial Intelligence at the [Radboud University](http://www.ru.nl) and an internship at [DoBots](https://dobots.nl/) and [Almende](http://www.almende.com/).

## Demo's

The following list of demo's are demo's of the local/browser version of SLACjs and use simulated data.

* [Full demonstration with simulated data](https://wouterbulten.nl/slacjs)
* [Landmark initialisation example](https://wouterbulten.nl/slacjs/tests/landmark-init.html)


## Screenshots

Local version of SLACjs running in the browser (with simulated data). Blue path is the ground truth motion of the user. Each grey path is a particle. Black squares are landmarks; red squares their best estimate retrieved from the particle filter.

![Local version of SLACjs](/resources/screenshots/slacjs_local.png?raw=true "Local version of SLACjs.")

A new landmark is initialised using a separate particle filter. On each new measurement the filter is updated to end up with a rough estimate of the landmark position. Note that this is range-only SLAM, so no heading information is present in the measurements.

![Initialising a new landmark](/resources/screenshots/slacjs_local_init.png?raw=true "Initialising a new landmark.")

After initialisation the landmark position is further refined using EKF's.

![Updating landmarks after initialisation (1/2)](/resources/screenshots/slacjs_local_init2.png?raw=true "Updating landmarks after initialisation (2/2).")
![Updating landmarks after initialisation (1/2)](/resources/screenshots/slacjs_local_localisation.png?raw=true "Updating landmarks after initialisation (2/2).")

SLACjs is designed to work on mobile devices utilising the compass and accelerometer data. A first version running on an iPad:

![iPad version of SLACjs](/resources/screenshots/slac-js-1.0.PNG?raw=true "First version of SLACjs running on an iPad.")


## Installation

SLACjs uses *bower* and *gulp* to manage dependencies and build the project; both can be installed using *npm*. Make sure that you have *npm* installed and then run:

1. Install gulp globally (only do this if you do not have gulp installed yet):
		`npm install --global gulp` 
2. Install project dependencies:
		`npm install`
3. Install all bower dependencies:
		`bower install`

For building the mobile version of SLACjs [Cordova](https://cordova.apache.org/) has to be installed including the target platforms. SLACjs is configured to build for *iOS* and *Android*. To prepare the project for mobile development run the following command:

`gulp mobile-setup`

This builds a mobile version of the project and adds all plugins and platforms as defined in `config.js`. Make sure that you run this command from the main project directory.

## Running SLACjs locally

A local version of SLACjs with simulated data can be run using:

`gulp serve`

This will start a development server on localhost:3000 using *BrowserSync*. All ES6 modules are compiled to a single ES5 compatible javascript file (including sourcemaps for development).

The main entry point of the local SLACjs version can be found in `src/app/app-local.js`.

## Running SLACjs on a mobile platform

To build a mobile version a combination of both *Gulp* and *Cordova* has to be used. Build the project and export the resources using:

`gulp mobile`

This transpiles all javascript and exports the resources for the app to the `/mobile` directory. The `mobile` directory is a Cordova project and can be used accordingly (i.e. using `cordova run ...` or `cordova prepare`). See the [Cordova docs](https://cordova.apache.org/docs/en/3.0.0/guide_cli_index.md.html) for more information about building.

When you have Phonegap installed you can use the [development app](http://app.phonegap.com/) to quickly test the app by running:

`phonegap serve` (Note: this must be run inside the `mobile` directory!)

To automatically rebuild all resources a specific serve task is available for mobile:

`gulp serve-mobile`

## Building & tools

To just build the files, without running the server, the following can be used:

`gulp build` (for local version)

`gulp mobile` (for mobile version)

The previous build can be cleared using:

`gulp clean` (for local version)

`gulp mobile-clean` (for mobile version)

Individual parts of the project can be built using one of the sub tasks. Run the help task to get a list of functions:

`gulp help`

## Configuration

Two configuration files define most of the behaviour of SLACjs. The *build configuration* file is located in:

`<project root>/config.js`

The build config file contains configuration for the all the Gulp tasks. 

The *application configuration*, which contains all settings used by the application, can be found in:

`<project root>/src/app/config.js` 

## Libraries & Third-party software

1. *Babeljs:* SLACjs uses ES6 and uses Babel to compile all javascript to ES5 compatible code.
2. *Browserify*: To pack all separate modules.
3. *JSHint & JSCS:* For static code analysis and checking code guidelines. Runs automatically when using the gulp _watch_ command.
4. *BrowserSync:* For live reloading of the development server

## Cordova plugins

The following Cordova plugins are used in the mobile version:

* org.apache.cordova.device-motion
* [com.randdusing.bluetoothle](https://github.com/randdusing/BluetoothLE)
* org.apache.cordova.dialogs
* org.apache.cordova.console
* org.apache.cordova.device-orientation

## Browser/device support

SLACjs utilises the Babel ES6 polyfill to support older browsers and mobile devices.

Commit message:

Added an overview of the algorithm

README.md, after:

# SLACjs

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/wouterbulten/slacjs.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/wouterbulten/slacjs) [![devDependency Status](https://david-dm.org/wouterbulten/slacjs/dev-status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/wouterbulten/slacjs#info=devDependencies) [![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/wouterbulten/slacjs/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/wouterbulten/slacjs) [![bitHound Score](https://www.bithound.io/github/wouterbulten/slacjs/badges/score.svg)](https://www.bithound.io/github/wouterbulten/slacjs)

Simultaneous Localisation and Configuration (SLAC) for Wireless Sensor Networks in indoor environments using FastSLAM.

With SLAC we aim to simultaneously localise both the user and the devices of a system deployed in an indoor environment. The algorithm is privacy-aware and is an online localisation method; i.e. localisation starts whenever a user starts moving inside a building. Moreover, for the SLAC system we focus on a solution that can be deployed in smart spaces without additional hardware requirements besides users’ mobile phones` and the components of the space. By utilising a mobile phone we remove the need for a application-dependent device that the user needs to keep.

SLAC is implemented in Javascript using the ECMAScript 6 standard. See [es6features](https://github.com/lukehoban/es6features) for an overview.

This project is part of a Master Thesis in Artificial Intelligence at the [Radboud University](http://www.ru.nl) and an internship at [DoBots](https://dobots.nl/) and [Almende](http://www.almende.com/).

## Demo's

The following list of demo's are demo's of the local/browser version of SLACjs and use simulated data.

* [Full demonstration with simulated data](https://wouterbulten.nl/slacjs)
* [Landmark initialisation example](https://wouterbulten.nl/slacjs/tests/landmark-init.html)


## Screenshots

Local version of SLACjs running in the browser (with simulated data). Blue path is the ground truth motion of the user. Each grey path is a particle. Black squares are landmarks; red squares their best estimate retrieved from the particle filter.

![Local version of SLACjs](/resources/screenshots/slacjs_local.png?raw=true "Local version of SLACjs.")

A new landmark is initialised using a separate particle filter. On each new measurement the filter is updated to end up with a rough estimate of the landmark position. Note that this is range-only SLAM, so no heading information is present in the measurements.

![Initialising a new landmark](/resources/screenshots/slacjs_local_init.png?raw=true "Initialising a new landmark.")

After initialisation the landmark position is further refined using EKF's.

![Updating landmarks after initialisation (1/2)](/resources/screenshots/slacjs_local_init2.png?raw=true "Updating landmarks after initialisation (2/2).")
![Updating landmarks after initialisation (1/2)](/resources/screenshots/slacjs_local_localisation.png?raw=true "Updating landmarks after initialisation (2/2).")

SLACjs is designed to work on mobile devices utilising the compass and accelerometer data. A first version running on an iPad:

![iPad version of SLACjs](/resources/screenshots/slac-js-1.0.PNG?raw=true "First version of SLACjs running on an iPad.")

## Overview of algorithm

All steps of the SLACjs algorithm are displayed in the flow chart below. The chart depicts the process of updating the particle filter based on a single observation. In the case of multiple observations, each observations is processed before resampling takes place.

![Flow chart of SLACjs algorithm](/resources/slacjs-algorithm-overview.PNG?raw=true "Flow chart of SLACjs algorithm.")


## Installation

SLACjs uses *bower* and *gulp* to manage dependencies and build the project; both can be installed using *npm*. Make sure that you have *npm* installed and then run:

1. Install gulp globally (only do this if you do not have gulp installed yet):
		`npm install --global gulp` 
2. Install project dependencies:
		`npm install`
3. Install all bower dependencies:
		`bower install`

For building the mobile version of SLACjs [Cordova](https://cordova.apache.org/) has to be installed including the target platforms. SLACjs is configured to build for *iOS* and *Android*. To prepare the project for mobile development run the following command:

`gulp mobile-setup`

This builds a mobile version of the project and adds all plugins and platforms as defined in `config.js`. Make sure that you run this command from the main project directory.

## Running SLACjs locally

A local version of SLACjs with simulated data can be run using:

`gulp serve`

This will start a development server on localhost:3000 using *BrowserSync*. All ES6 modules are compiled to a single ES5 compatible javascript file (including sourcemaps for development).

The main entry point of the local SLACjs version can be found in `src/app/app-local.js`.

## Running SLACjs on a mobile platform

To build a mobile version a combination of both *Gulp* and *Cordova* has to be used. Build the project and export the resources using:

`gulp mobile`

This transpiles all javascript and exports the resources for the app to the `/mobile` directory. The `mobile` directory is a Cordova project and can be used accordingly (i.e. using `cordova run ...` or `cordova prepare`). See the [Cordova docs](https://cordova.apache.org/docs/en/3.0.0/guide_cli_index.md.html) for more information about building.

When you have Phonegap installed you can use the [development app](http://app.phonegap.com/) to quickly test the app by running:

`phonegap serve` (Note: this must be run inside the `mobile` directory!)

To automatically rebuild all resources a specific serve task is available for mobile:

`gulp serve-mobile`

## Building & tools

To just build the files, without running the server, the following can be used:

`gulp build` (for local version)

`gulp mobile` (for mobile version)

The previous build can be cleared using:

`gulp clean` (for local version)

`gulp mobile-clean` (for mobile version)

Individual parts of the project can be built using one of the sub tasks. Run the help task to get a list of functions:

`gulp help`

## Configuration

Two configuration files define most of the behaviour of SLACjs. The *build configuration* file is located in:

`<project root>/config.js`

The build config file contains configuration for the all the Gulp tasks. 

The *application configuration*, which contains all settings used by the application, can be found in:

`<project root>/src/app/config.js` 

## Libraries & Third-party software

1. *Babeljs:* SLACjs uses ES6 and uses Babel to compile all javascript to ES5 compatible code.
2. *Browserify*: To pack all separate modules.
3. *JSHint & JSCS:* For static code analysis and checking code guidelines. Runs automatically when using the gulp _watch_ command.
4. *BrowserSync:* For live reloading of the development server

## Cordova plugins

The following Cordova plugins are used in the mobile version:

* org.apache.cordova.device-motion
* [com.randdusing.bluetoothle](https://github.com/randdusing/BluetoothLE)
* org.apache.cordova.dialogs
* org.apache.cordova.console
* org.apache.cordova.device-orientation

## Browser/device support

SLACjs utilises the Babel ES6 polyfill to support older browsers and mobile devices.
